Now that you know who we are.
NOTE CONF
Please scan the QR code to find out more about
other sessions.
NOTE CONF
You might have seen our posters in Appleton.
So we're looking forward to seeing you.
NOTE CONF
Come along, get some free snacks and chat to all
the students.
NOTE CONF
This semester we're also going to recruit new leaders at
the end of the semester.
NOTE CONF
So if you're potentially interested in getting involved helping out
next year, and it's a really great and fun thing
NOTE CONF
to do, so go for it and follow our Instagram
if you're interested in getting updates.
NOTE CONF
Because we occasionally, usually we're always in the same room.
Occasionally we have to change room, but usually we're always
NOTE CONF
there.
Cool.
NOTE CONF
Thank you so much.
Thanks very much, guys.
NOTE CONF
Um, so just to emphasise, you totally should go along
to us.
NOTE CONF
We get asked loads of questions, especially about things like
internships and all kinds of things these guys are doing
NOTE CONF
anyway, and they do it really brilliantly.
So do go to empowers.
NOTE CONF
You'll get a lot out of it.
It's going to make your lives way easier.
NOTE CONF
So thanks very much.
I think we got one more.
NOTE CONF
Did you send me a slide as well?
Oh, God.
NOTE CONF
Sorry.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
Thanks for coming.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So sorry.
What did you send me?
NOTE CONF
Yeah.
Here we go.
NOTE CONF
I did download it.
Okay, I just pick this one up.
NOTE CONF
Oh, no.
Yeah, just use this one, actually.
NOTE CONF
There you go.
Thank you so much.
NOTE CONF
Testing.
Oh, there we go.
NOTE CONF
Perfect.
If I just give you a note for you to
NOTE CONF
just switch the slide over it, that's fine.
Perfect.
NOTE CONF
Brilliant.
All right.
NOTE CONF
Hello, everyone.
Um, yeah.
NOTE CONF
Welcome to your average F1 b lecture.
I'm here to talk to you guys about Hagler, Boro.
NOTE CONF
Hagler.
Boro is back for its 11th iteration this year.
NOTE CONF
So pack for 2025 is coming on the first the
2nd of March.
NOTE CONF
If you don't know what hack is it's our annual
24 hour hackathon.
NOTE CONF
It's run by Comstock in collaboration with other societies.
And the school really likes it.
NOTE CONF
Um, it's an absolutely amazing opportunity for your CV.
It's an absolutely amazing opportunity for any of you to
NOTE CONF
get involved with your very first hackathon.
You do not need mountains of experience.
NOTE CONF
Um, there's plenty of challenges ranging from easier to harder
ones.
NOTE CONF
You can sign up with your friends.
Um, there's plenty of prize to be won.
NOTE CONF
We have very big companies sponsoring us.
I can't reveal who they are just yet because those
NOTE CONF
are being reviewed by our social media team.
But in the past few years, we had big names
NOTE CONF
like Blackrock a few years ago, and maybe like at
companies like Optima, I'm pretty sure.
NOTE CONF
So, you know, that might give you an idea of
who we might be getting this year.
NOTE CONF
Um, yeah.
So basically, all I'm here to tell you guys and
NOTE CONF
ask you is that you get involved.
Try and apply for it again.
NOTE CONF
It's really great for your CV's.
If you've never done a hackathon before, please try and
NOTE CONF
get in on this one because this is the big
one.
NOTE CONF
This is the one that the School of Informatics probably
treats as the biggest one in the university, and it's
NOTE CONF
the biggest hackathon in Scotland.
So save the date 1st or 2nd of March.
NOTE CONF
And if we just switch the slide there, there's the
QR codes.
NOTE CONF
So applications are now officially open.
We've opened them today.
NOTE CONF
We now have a hack our website.
We have an Instagram and a discord.
NOTE CONF
If you guys just scan any of those QR codes
you will be able to um, you'll be able to
NOTE CONF
apply, you'll be able to be kept in the loop
on what we're doing.
NOTE CONF
And yeah, if I just give you guys some time
to scan this QR codes, that'll be great.
NOTE CONF
Thank you so much.
Great.
NOTE CONF
Thank you very much.
So just to again back that up, I really this
NOTE CONF
is such a great opportunity.
Quite a lot of people have already been asking me
NOTE CONF
about internships and stuff.
Internships are really hard to get after first year, but
NOTE CONF
building up your skills, showing the active being involved in
bigger projects is exactly the way you get to build
NOTE CONF
up that kind of CV presence that's going to help
you a lot.
NOTE CONF
And also hackathons are a lot of fun.
So I'll just give you a couple of seconds.
NOTE CONF
I will put these on the info on the website.
So if you own the open course page.
NOTE CONF
So if you miss this you will be able to
go there.
NOTE CONF
But we've got a lot to get through today so
I'm going to push on with that.
NOTE CONF
All right.
So let's go back to Woo clap see how people
NOTE CONF
are feeling about the assignments.
Now I've lost everything.
NOTE CONF
Okay okay.
So assignment one is released today I think the email
NOTE CONF
about that has just gone out.
I think it is now live.
NOTE CONF
Um you will have hopefully you'll have tried the tests.
You have a bit of time to do this.
NOTE CONF
Take it easy.
Take take your time over it.
NOTE CONF
I would start quite soon, but I wouldn't necessarily rush
through.
NOTE CONF
As I said, I think last week some of it's
going to be quite hard if you're just beginning with
NOTE CONF
just the stuff we're covering now.
So don't get too ahead of yourself, but some of
NOTE CONF
them you'll be able to do so.
Just take a look at it.
NOTE CONF
Don't leave it all to the last minute.
I sent an email about all of this earlier.
NOTE CONF
Um, okay.
So we're going to have a very quick look at
NOTE CONF
feedback from last week.
Um, so how much live coding.
NOTE CONF
So most people like the live coding, but there's really,
um, a division pretty much exactly equal split between whether
NOTE CONF
you want it really focussed on live coding and not
so much on the slides, um, or a bit more
NOTE CONF
mixed up.
So I'll try not to just completely ignore the slides,
NOTE CONF
but the slides are always there for you to go
and look at, whereas the live coding isn't.
NOTE CONF
You'll find there's not there's hardly any live coding.
There's not much live coding today.
NOTE CONF
It depends on the lecture, but I'll bear that in
mind.
NOTE CONF
Most of you are enjoying the course.
Yay!
NOTE CONF
So only 4% are not enjoying the course.
That makes me feel quite happy.
NOTE CONF
So most of you are.
That's great.
NOTE CONF
Um, most of you have not been to a lab
session because you don't feel you need the support right
NOTE CONF
now.
That's absolutely fine.
NOTE CONF
They're not intended for you to have to go to
them.
NOTE CONF
But do I think these are really underused and people
who actually would get a lot out of it don't
NOTE CONF
go.
So if you want a bit of a 1 to
NOTE CONF
1 tutoring or, you know, not a whole hour of
1 to 1 tutoring, but but a bit of attention
NOTE CONF
from someone who knows the course.
Do go.
NOTE CONF
Only a small number of people thought it wasn't as
helpful as as they'd like.
NOTE CONF
If you do, if you do go along and you
find it isn't as helpful as you'd like.
NOTE CONF
Please get in touch with me.
I'd like to know more about that.
NOTE CONF
Most people are more or less all completely understand what
they need to do, which is really good.
NOTE CONF
So far the level of the course is good.
Yes, I'm really happy with that.
NOTE CONF
Challenging is okay.
I'd expect maybe a bit more people to find it
NOTE CONF
challenging, but it's early days.
But that's all fine.
NOTE CONF
And there's a real mix between how much people have
been doing the labs.
NOTE CONF
I don't expect this to be most people, because if
you have got a lot of object oriented and Java
NOTE CONF
experience, you probably don't need to be doing the labs.
But if you're trying to learn this, the labs are
NOTE CONF
where you get that practice in.
Um, okay.
NOTE CONF
Most people, quite a lot of people have signed up
to Piazza, but most people haven't actually been using it.
NOTE CONF
It's just I would definitely get onto onto onto Piazza,
especially now the assignments are live just to see what
NOTE CONF
the chat is.
People are really asking questions that actually is quite useful
NOTE CONF
for you.
You'll see what people are talking about.
NOTE CONF
It's really useful to be involved in the buzz of
the class and and to pick up things that you
NOTE CONF
maybe wouldn't have done on your own.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
There's a lot of academic families.
I don't have time to go through that now, but
NOTE CONF
I think something's coming out really strongly from that is
that it hasn't been as active as people would like.
NOTE CONF
A lot of people haven't really heard from their parents
that much.
NOTE CONF
This is the first year we've been running it, so
we haven't had a lot of support for the academic
NOTE CONF
parents, and that means they have not a lot of
them haven't been engaging that much with the with with
NOTE CONF
you guys.
So we're going to try I was away the whole
NOTE CONF
of last semester, which didn't help, but we're going to
try and ramp that up.
NOTE CONF
And your feedback is really, really helpful.
So thanks for that.
NOTE CONF
Some of you have been really enjoying it, but I
know that for a lot of you, it hasn't really
NOTE CONF
taken off because your parents haven't been that engaged.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So woo I'm now going to go back.
These are the questions, the actual sensible questions that we
NOTE CONF
had last time.
More practice writing loops and functions.
NOTE CONF
This is in the labs.
Do the labs.
NOTE CONF
But also it'll be in the tutorials and you'll be
getting it in the assignments as well.
NOTE CONF
So do the labs do the tutorials.
This is where you'll get the practice.
NOTE CONF
Okay so this is a comment about memory.
Um, about well okay.
NOTE CONF
Actually I don't want to go through this in too
much detail because we'll be talking about memory later on.
NOTE CONF
Um, couldn't you use else if statements along with break
statements to make it more readable?
NOTE CONF
So there's so there's different ways you can do this.
We looked at one way of doing it.
NOTE CONF
Um, but yes, you can use break statements in that
as well.
NOTE CONF
Why are I considered Doctor of philosophy or PhDs, whether
it's in neuroscience or English literature or anything, is a
NOTE CONF
doctor of philosophy.
That's just a really ancient thing, because the whole idea
NOTE CONF
is it's about love of knowledge, which now specifically refers
to an individual subject.
NOTE CONF
But originally when the 14th century or whenever they started
it, um, it was more general.
NOTE CONF
Okay, can we use plus plus I instead of I
plus plus.
NOTE CONF
So I'm just going to show you this is this
is true.
NOTE CONF
You can.
So I didn't show you this because I didn't want
NOTE CONF
to bring in too many, um, new things.
But let's have a quick look at that.
NOTE CONF
Um, so here we said, um, If we do?
None.
NOTE CONF
Plus.
Plus, this doesn't work, right?
NOTE CONF
Because.
Do you remember why this is?
NOTE CONF
Because this is post incremental.
So it does this thing return num.
NOTE CONF
And after that it adds one.
So we got around this by doing this doing this
NOTE CONF
like that.
So we first of all we increment by one and
NOTE CONF
then we return the value.
Oh and we also haven't assigned it here.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
But somebody pointed out somebody who maybe knows a bit
NOTE CONF
of Java that you can do pre increment here.
Plus plus this is the same as num plus plus
NOTE CONF
plus plus num num plus plus are the same except
for the point at which the increment happens.
NOTE CONF
So this means first of all increment num and then
do whatever the instruction says.
NOTE CONF
Whereas num plus plus means do whatever the instruction says
and then increment.
NOTE CONF
So if we do it like this, we will see
that it does return one because it's first adding it
NOTE CONF
before it returns it.
So yes you can.
NOTE CONF
Why do you have four times I plus J in
the deck.
NOTE CONF
So I'm not going to go through this.
But this is is because you need the deck to
NOTE CONF
be 52.
And also if you're interested in this, just get out
NOTE CONF
a piece of paper.
Go back to the code on cards.
NOTE CONF
Look at the for loop with the eyes and the
JS and work out how that is, how that is
NOTE CONF
iterating through to add something in every space for 52
spaces in the deck.
NOTE CONF
If you didn't have that full time, it wouldn't work.
I don't really have time to explain that, but you
NOTE CONF
can figure that out yourself.
That's a really interesting little problem.
NOTE CONF
Is there a chance of getting an index out of
bounds error on the cards?
NOTE CONF
Example if Math.random returns one.
No there isn't.
NOTE CONF
Because Math.random does not return one, it returns something less
than 1.0, so it's never going to return one.
NOTE CONF
It's always going to be less than one.
What if the array doesn't?
NOTE CONF
We define doesn't have a fixed length, but it changes
by how many times the user gives an input.
NOTE CONF
You can't do that with arrays in Java.
If you want to do that, you have to use
NOTE CONF
different structures that we'll talk about later.
Do we have tutorials today?
NOTE CONF
No tutorials.
That was on Thursday.
NOTE CONF
The answer's no.
Also none today.
NOTE CONF
We don't have tutorials on Monday and Tuesday, but this
is the week that tutorials start, so you will have
NOTE CONF
your tutorial this week.
This is the same question these two.
NOTE CONF
How do you use an enhanced for loop to iterate
through 2D array.
NOTE CONF
So 2D arrays you've got two things going on.
So you have to have nested for loops.
NOTE CONF
We will look at that later.
I don't want you to worry about that, but if
NOTE CONF
you're interested in it you can do it.
Is it still possible to get the Informatics 2D?
NOTE CONF
No, it is not still possible.
I'm afraid not.
NOTE CONF
So there's the Informatics hoodie with the dark, which was
this one.
NOTE CONF
I don't really know what the duck is all about,
but that was the one that the students designed and
NOTE CONF
it was heavily subsidised by the school.
Those are all sold out.
NOTE CONF
I'm afraid you have to act quickly when you get
the email about the hoodies.
NOTE CONF
You can get informatics hoodies in the university shop, which
is just right by the forum, but they're not subsidised,
NOTE CONF
they're full price and they don't have the duck on.
So sorry about that.
NOTE CONF
They go quickly.
Everybody loves the hoodies okay, so that's last week.
NOTE CONF
So this week part of the lecture we got Willow
who's a Jack Russell Chihuahua mix.
NOTE CONF
Um she was the runt of the litter, but she's
the cutest and best behaved and very greedy, so probably
NOTE CONF
won't be around for very long.
That's super cute.
NOTE CONF
And then.
Oh, okay, we do have another pet somewhere.
NOTE CONF
Oh, we don't have another pet.
Sorry, I had some birds, but for some, somehow they're
NOTE CONF
not in here.
I don't know what's going on there, but never mind.
NOTE CONF
We'll have them next week instead.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Teaching awards.
Open.
NOTE CONF
Do nominate people for teaching awards.
If you ever.
NOTE CONF
If you think anyone's doing a good job, please nominate
them.
NOTE CONF
I had a colleague who messaged me yesterday saying I've
got another nomination.
NOTE CONF
This is his second and he's so excited about it.
It really makes a difference.
NOTE CONF
You guys, for example, have been telling me how great
Julian is.
NOTE CONF
Okay, has anyone nominated Julian for a teaching award?
If you think he did a good job, if he
NOTE CONF
was fun, if he made learning good or whatever, just
nominate him.
NOTE CONF
It only takes a second.
You have to write something about why you're nominating the
NOTE CONF
person, but it's only really brief.
So this makes a huge difference.
NOTE CONF
And also last year Informatics didn't get that many nominations
and I spoke to lots of students.
NOTE CONF
I was like, oh, do you think, you know, people
aren't like in teaching?
NOTE CONF
They're like, no, no, there are loads of great teachers.
I just didn't get around to nominating them.
NOTE CONF
So, you know, I'm not saying nominate for the sake
of it.
NOTE CONF
So informatics looks good.
I'm just saying if you think someone's done a good,
NOTE CONF
good, good job, do nominate them because it makes everyone
very happy and it makes the school very happy.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
Assignment one I think you've got the email about that.
NOTE CONF
Um, this is just saying don't leave it to last
minute.
NOTE CONF
27th of February is a deadline, so you've got plenty
of time.
NOTE CONF
But pace yourselves and read the emails about it.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
Office hours.
Which two was the winner?
NOTE CONF
So I'm going to have rich tea.
And that's going to start at 4:00 in 606 as
NOTE CONF
usual.
Um, so do it was great.
NOTE CONF
Last week loads of people came to say hello.
So do come along and say hello or come along
NOTE CONF
with any questions or whatever.
I'll be there with my rich tea and I'll bring
NOTE CONF
much more than I did last time.
All right.
NOTE CONF
So I want to go back to what we were
talking about last time.
NOTE CONF
So we were talking about Uh, passing by value and
what that means.
NOTE CONF
So if we look in here, we are back in
IntelliJ.
NOTE CONF
So remember with this one we if we just called
add one, but we didn't actually do anything with it.
NOTE CONF
This didn't do anything right.
Because we're passing the number back here.
NOTE CONF
It's just a local variable.
It changes the variable locally.
NOTE CONF
But then we jump out of that function and that
local variable is forgotten.
NOTE CONF
If we want to do anything, we have to pass
it back.
NOTE CONF
We're passing by value.
Uh so this should be x.
NOTE CONF
So here if we actually part, we take what comes
out of this and we assign it to something, then
NOTE CONF
that's how we retain it.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
But having said that things don't work quite like that
with arrays right.
NOTE CONF
So arrays oh so raises slightly different.
So I'm going to go to um let me see
NOTE CONF
add one array.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So here what we're doing.
We're just printing out an array not doing anything about
NOTE CONF
it.
Said this array is zero one.
NOTE CONF
You can see it's just printing the array.
Now we've got something called we're going to do add
NOTE CONF
one.
And this is add one for an array.
NOTE CONF
So it takes an integer of arrays.
And just to the first number it adds one.
NOTE CONF
So we would expect the outcome of this method to
be one one.
NOTE CONF
However this is returning.
This is not returning anything and we're not assigning it
NOTE CONF
to anything.
So what's going to happen.
NOTE CONF
So the return the answer here is one one.
So this has made a change even though this is
NOTE CONF
just happening this this is not returning anything.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So what is going on here.
And this is to do with the way things work
NOTE CONF
in memory okay.
So as we know, the array itself and its length
NOTE CONF
cannot be changed.
But the elements can be changed and it's changing.
NOTE CONF
The value of an element of an array is a
side effect of the function.
NOTE CONF
This is something you have to be careful with because
often you change things accidentally.
NOTE CONF
So you have to be very conscious about this.
So this is the code that we've been looking at.
NOTE CONF
So here we're calling this code, we're passing to add
one to our array.
NOTE CONF
And and it's adding one as we've seen.
So why does this make a difference.
NOTE CONF
This is because the calling code is pointing to a
in memory.
NOTE CONF
So it's pointing to something we've created in memory which
is an array.
NOTE CONF
And this array has the values in memory.
We looked at a little bit about how we created
NOTE CONF
arrays in memory.
And then we send this to the method.
NOTE CONF
And this is also talking about this same as pointing
to the same bit of memory.
NOTE CONF
So when we change things locally it's actually going to
memory and changing things in memory.
NOTE CONF
Right.
Which does not happen when it's a variable.
NOTE CONF
It happens when it's an array.
So if we look back at what's going on here.
NOTE CONF
What's not doing that.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So A and A and B and C and whatever.
Yeah I guess so.
NOTE CONF
So so it's these are not living in memory in
the same way.
NOTE CONF
These are variables.
Whereas the array has got this spot in memory where
NOTE CONF
we're changing the values of that array.
So it's pointing to this array.
NOTE CONF
And a memory is something we'll talk about a bit
more later on okay.
NOTE CONF
So I'm not going to look at we'll look at
this very briefly.
NOTE CONF
This is kind of a so this is going back
to returning things.
NOTE CONF
So here we're cubing a number I've got some questions
for this.
NOTE CONF
But I don't think we need to really go into
that.
NOTE CONF
So what is going to go here.
We're just we need to have the return statement because
NOTE CONF
we're not because it's not void.
And we can put all the, um, actual action of
NOTE CONF
the, of the code, which is this multiplication into the
return statement because it's really straightforward.
NOTE CONF
Um, okay.
So have a look at this.
NOTE CONF
What's going on here.
So we've got this main method.
NOTE CONF
We've got two integers A and b.
We're printing out a and b.
NOTE CONF
And then we're going up to this code that's swapping
them around.
NOTE CONF
Printing out these swapped ones.
And then we're coming back to the main method.
NOTE CONF
And we're printing out A and B.
So I'm going to put this up on woo clap.
NOTE CONF
Oh no sorry.
That's this one.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So which of these answers is it going to print
NOTE CONF
out.
I'll just give you a few seconds for that.
NOTE CONF
People.
Oh sorry.
NOTE CONF
Actually you're on the different wook lab okay I won't
do that through.
NOTE CONF
Woohoo!
Clap.
NOTE CONF
Because that's a bit complicated, but the answer is, oh,
somebody's on there.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so what's it going to print out?
It's going to print out 255225 because it prints out
NOTE CONF
what's here.
It swaps them around.
NOTE CONF
But then it hasn't actually changed anything in memory.
And it's not passing anything back.
NOTE CONF
So A and B just reverts.
Within this context A and B are just the same
NOTE CONF
as they have been.
Whereas here we've got an array and we're printing out
NOTE CONF
the first and second elements of the array.
And then we're swapping the array up here, printing that
NOTE CONF
out and then printing out again what's going to happen.
So here we're going to get two five.
NOTE CONF
And then we swap.
We're going to get five two just the same.
NOTE CONF
But here because of the way this is changing something
in memory, when we go back to the main function
NOTE CONF
that swap is going to persist.
Whereas with the variables it didn't persist.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So we're going to look a little bit very briefly
NOTE CONF
at the whole idea of breaking of what functions how
you use functions to make code more readable.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So we're looking at nearest neighbour to a central point.
NOTE CONF
This doesn't really matter very much the details of this.
But this is the code right.
NOTE CONF
This is the code for finding the centre point.
So if you have a look at this okay.
NOTE CONF
Can you pick up pretty easily what's going on in
this code that you can't pick up pretty easily.
NOTE CONF
This is really hard to read right.
So even if you understand how you work out nearest
NOTE CONF
neighbours, even if your Java is really good, this is
going to take you a long time to figure out
NOTE CONF
exactly what's going on here, Because there's no structure to
it.
NOTE CONF
There's no functions, there's no arguments.
So if we want to make this really nice and
NOTE CONF
organised, we have to think what is the logic of
what we're trying to do?
NOTE CONF
So good coding is always about following the logic.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So first of all you need to parse arguments.
You're passing all these arguments in.
NOTE CONF
You've got to parse them.
Then you're going to find the centre.
NOTE CONF
Then you're going to print the centre.
Then you're going to get the neighbours all around the
NOTE CONF
centre.
You're going to calculate the distances between the neighbours in
NOTE CONF
the centre.
Print those distances, calculate the minimum of all those distances,
NOTE CONF
print minimum okay.
So these are the steps you're going to do.
NOTE CONF
That is the logic.
So you have to think about what's going into this.
NOTE CONF
So here we're passing in the arguments that we start
with.
NOTE CONF
We're parsing them and that's returning our points.
Get centre takes those points and returns a centre.
NOTE CONF
Print centre takes the centre and doesn't return anything.
And so on and so forth.
NOTE CONF
At each point, we're using what we've got before to
pass things into a function and to do something else.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so instead of this crazy code that you saw,
let's have a look at how we might do that.
NOTE CONF
So let's look at nearest neighbour.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So we're going to have a main method.
And we are going to start with what are we
NOTE CONF
going to start with.
Oh I haven't got here anyway.
NOTE CONF
So let's have a look at this.
We're going to want to parse the arguments right.
NOTE CONF
So we're going to oops.
Parse arguments.
NOTE CONF
And this is going to take in the args oops.
And it's parse arguments is going to return something.
NOTE CONF
It's going to return the points.
And what kind of thing of the point is going
NOTE CONF
to be a double array.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So it's not happy with parse arguments because I'm calling
a method that doesn't exist.
NOTE CONF
But you can see what's going on here.
So then I'm going to take the points I'm going
NOTE CONF
to get the centre.
So get centre takes points and it's going to assign
NOTE CONF
those to something called centre which is going to be
A double.
NOTE CONF
And then we're going to have print centre which takes
the centre doesn't return anything okay.
NOTE CONF
And then we're going to have all the other things.
But this is where we start off.
NOTE CONF
So that you can see this is immediately quite clear
what's going on here.
NOTE CONF
Now we have to put in these methods.
So let's do public static.
NOTE CONF
Um we're going to do parse arguments here which takes
in args.
NOTE CONF
Um so we have to think what is the return
value we're going to put in here.
NOTE CONF
Double array.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
So we've already said it's it's something that returns double
rated.
NOTE CONF
This has got to match.
And then we've got to tell it what kind of
NOTE CONF
thing ARGs are.
And then we're going to have whatever we're doing.
NOTE CONF
We're going to have a return going to return something
that's a double array.
NOTE CONF
And we're going to have some code in here.
So this is how we structure it right.
NOTE CONF
We have all these different methods.
You go to main, you can clearly see the logic.
NOTE CONF
And then if you want to see what's happening in
each of those methods.
NOTE CONF
You go inside them in detail.
Okay, so this is what it looks like when we've
NOTE CONF
got, um, everything in there.
Um, so in here, we've got all the codes.
NOTE CONF
I'm not going to go through all the code because
it's not really relevant to the point we're making.
NOTE CONF
But if you want to have practice at code, you
can have a look at how it's coding all these
NOTE CONF
different paths.
Arguments get sent to get neighbours and all of those
NOTE CONF
things.
It's all in there.
NOTE CONF
So why do you want to do this?
Do you want to break programs down into well named
NOTE CONF
functions?
All the functions I had had names that gave you
NOTE CONF
an idea of what it was.
They did make something really complex into something much clearer.
NOTE CONF
It hides implementation details.
So I might want to know how you're getting centred.
NOTE CONF
I can go and look at it, but likely I
don't really care how you do that.
NOTE CONF
I just need that to happen so I don't need
to see the difference.
NOTE CONF
I think we did the dry we mentioned this last
time, didn't we?
NOTE CONF
Don't repeat yourself.
Readability.
NOTE CONF
Maintainability.
Super important.
NOTE CONF
10 to 12 lines.
Um, so it encourages good program practices by emphasising the
NOTE CONF
discrete reusable methods.
It self documents the code to some extent because you
NOTE CONF
can understand what it's about.
Use descriptive names so you can understand it and it
NOTE CONF
reduces code duplication, which is a really bad thing as
we've said before, because it leads to errors and it's
NOTE CONF
really hard to change recursive functions.
Yeah.
NOTE CONF
So the basic concepts are the same as in Haskell.
Um, okay.
NOTE CONF
So that's just picking up on some of the stuff
about functions that we didn't quite cover last time.
NOTE CONF
So let's now move on to classes and objects.
So we are, as I think has already come up
NOTE CONF
in the questions.
This is an object oriented course.
NOTE CONF
We haven't really talked about objects very much at all.
That's because we need to get in the basic functional
NOTE CONF
stuff first okay.
So why object orientation?
NOTE CONF
Why is this such a common paradigm in coding is
because changing code is really hard and expensive.
NOTE CONF
But the world is really dynamic.
So changing your code all the time, you know, on
NOTE CONF
your phone how often you get app updates and so
forth.
NOTE CONF
You're constantly changing, updating, improving.
Because you have to.
NOTE CONF
Because the world's changed or because you want to.
Because you've thought of new features.
NOTE CONF
This happens.
This is mostly what coding is about, starting from scratch
NOTE CONF
and creating something new.
It doesn't happen all that much.
NOTE CONF
I mean, it happens quite a lot, but mostly it's
about improving and extending what you already have.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so you want to minimise the amount of code
that you have to change, and you want to make
NOTE CONF
it really easy to work out which bit of code
you have to change.
NOTE CONF
And the kind of the fundamental rule is that code
that, that, that you need to change.
NOTE CONF
The things you want to change at once should live
together, right?
NOTE CONF
If the logic makes it makes a this is this
is something that's happening.
NOTE CONF
So if you want to change this, it all happens
in this place.
NOTE CONF
It should be a place where they live together instead
of code all over the place where you have to
NOTE CONF
go all into different things.
Because one thing has changed and that's affecting lots of
NOTE CONF
different things.
You want it to affect one thing that you can
NOTE CONF
change, and then that spirals out to all the other
things that are affected.
NOTE CONF
We've talked about hiding information so that so that the
code doesn't depend on it.
NOTE CONF
I actually maybe I want to change how I do
this.
NOTE CONF
I can do that.
It doesn't change anybody using that code.
NOTE CONF
For example the parse arguments, maybe I've got an actually
much more efficient way of doing this.
NOTE CONF
I'll just change that.
Nobody's using that method needs to care about that.
NOTE CONF
It's still doing the same thing for their point of
view.
NOTE CONF
So modularity and abstraction via functions you're using functions to
get this modularity okay.
NOTE CONF
So the interface between the user of the code and
the implementation is the API.
NOTE CONF
So this is the implementation is what's under the hood
what Java is actually doing.
NOTE CONF
The the user is, is the person what they want
it to do.
NOTE CONF
And the API is how we're telling it that that's
supposed to happen.
NOTE CONF
So for example, um, these slides weren't actually done that
long ago, but this is a bit retro.
NOTE CONF
Um, but we have a client.
This is, this is the example of a tele.
NOTE CONF
The API would be the remote control, right.
That's how the user interacts with the machine.
NOTE CONF
You don't need to care about what's going on under
the hood.
NOTE CONF
You don't need to care about, you know, the cathode
ray tube or however it's happening.
NOTE CONF
You just need to know the buttons you need to
press to get it to what you want to do.
NOTE CONF
An API probably is a concept most of you are
really familiar with.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so data representation.
So a data type is a set of values and
NOTE CONF
operations on those values.
And as we've said in Java it's a type language.
NOTE CONF
Types are really important.
You can't do anything in Java until you've told it.
NOTE CONF
What the type of thing you're what type everything you're
talking about is.
NOTE CONF
So we have primitive types and we've seen these before.
Integers double boolean.
NOTE CONF
Those are all the really basic ones we started off.
Also you have user defined.
NOTE CONF
So a lot of them I mean mostly when you're
programming you're going to be creating your own types.
NOTE CONF
And these you can call anything but you can call
them anything.
NOTE CONF
But you always should call them something that's logical and
clear so that people coming to it fresh will understand
NOTE CONF
what it is those things are supposed to be doing.
So the quick way to tell the difference, if you're
NOTE CONF
looking at something, you want to know which one it
is.
NOTE CONF
Although it's pretty obvious because you know you know what
the primitives are.
NOTE CONF
But primitives always start with lowercase letters, whereas user defined
always start with uppercase letters, and when you have new
NOTE CONF
words in it, you shove all the words together and
each one starts with a capital letter.
NOTE CONF
And you can have them be arbitrary long, but the
longer they get, the more difficult they are to read.
NOTE CONF
There is occasional exceptions, for example strings.
So you may have noticed that when I do ints
NOTE CONF
it's always lowercase, but when you put strings in is
always an uppercase.
NOTE CONF
This is because string is not a primitive.
However, string is so common that it kind of behaves
NOTE CONF
like a primitive.
It has a lot of built in stuff in the
NOTE CONF
standard library, so you can do a lot of things
with strings that are already built in.
NOTE CONF
So effectively you can treat it like a primitive, but
it starts with a capital okay.
NOTE CONF
You don't need to know how the data type is
implemented in order to use it.
NOTE CONF
So we don't need to know like printer.
Q how does a printer Q work?
NOTE CONF
I don't care, I just care that there's a print
Q and it's going to help me print stuff.
NOTE CONF
So you should read the documentation.
Actually, I should show you all the Java documentation.
NOTE CONF
I haven't got that up today, but I'll show you
that on Thursday.
NOTE CONF
Maybe.
But there's good documentation about everything built in in Java.
NOTE CONF
It will tell you what it takes in and what
it returns and what it does.
NOTE CONF
And when you are, we'll get on to this later.
When you're writing your own stuff, you need to provide
NOTE CONF
documentation so people understand what they're for.
So there's this difference between abstraction and encapsulation, which are
NOTE CONF
actually generally used fairly interchangeably.
But a slightly, subtly different abstraction means you don't need
NOTE CONF
to know about implementation, and encapsulation means you can't depend
on implementation.
NOTE CONF
So in encapsulation, things can actually be changing under the
hood.
NOTE CONF
But the documentation should always be telling you what it's
doing.
NOTE CONF
And this varies between languages.
Okay, so as I was saying it's mostly pretty procedure.
NOTE CONF
What we've been doing so far.
That's because we're building up the underlying stuff.
NOTE CONF
So we've looked at primitive types control flow and how
to put things into array.
NOTE CONF
None of that is object orientation.
That's just the tools that you're going to need when
NOTE CONF
you're doing some object orientation.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So but the philosophy of object orientation, which as, as
we've been saying software changes a lot.
NOTE CONF
So structuring based on oh so structuring based on what
your software should do is really expensive, right.
NOTE CONF
Because that is going to change.
However, the world, the domain in which you live or
NOTE CONF
what you're structuring this or what you're setting it, it
doesn't change as much.
NOTE CONF
Right?
So the kind of objects that can exist in your
NOTE CONF
world are much less likely to change in the kinds
of things you want them to do.
NOTE CONF
So if you if you think of it all in
terms of objects and how they interact with each other,
NOTE CONF
that's a much more stable design.
And you can change how they do things within the
NOTE CONF
objects without changing that overall structure.
Whereas if you're structuring it all around what it's actually
NOTE CONF
going to do, then when you when what you want
it to do changes that, that means much more fundamental
NOTE CONF
changes.
So this is a much more stable way of coding,
NOTE CONF
which means it's easy to to exist in a very
dynamic world without doing with doing the minimum amount of
NOTE CONF
maintenance.
Okay, so I think we came into this right at
NOTE CONF
the beginning.
Things in the world, i.e. objects, they know things and
NOTE CONF
they do things knowing things as instant variables, that's the
values that they have.
NOTE CONF
Doing things as methods.
Right.
NOTE CONF
What are the kinds of methods that they can do?
So objects have states, which is what they know the
NOTE CONF
instance variable.
And they have behaviour which is the things that they
NOTE CONF
can do which are defined in the methods.
So here we have a car right.
NOTE CONF
We're creating an object a class of car type car
which is going to create objects of type car.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So what can it what does it know about itself.
NOTE CONF
So it might know there's all kinds of things you
could put in here.
NOTE CONF
But for example it might know whether it's engines on
it might know what speed it's travelling at.
NOTE CONF
It might know how much petrol it's got.
These are these are facts about the object.
NOTE CONF
What kinds of things can it do.
What are the methods that might exist.
NOTE CONF
So you might want to start the engine.
You might want to stop the engine maybe accelerate, maybe
NOTE CONF
break, maybe refill petrol.
And again with the car there's loads of things you
NOTE CONF
can put in there.
But when you're designing objects, when you're designing, when you're
NOTE CONF
writing classes, just write the stuff that you need.
Don't think about, oh, maybe one day I'd really want
NOTE CONF
to know how many doors are open.
Or maybe one day I really want it.
NOTE CONF
You know, there's loads of stuff you can do.
You can do that as you go along, as you
NOTE CONF
need to keep it as simple as as you can
as you're writing it, and only write stuff that you
NOTE CONF
know you're going to want it to do, and then
you can easily add stuff as you go.
NOTE CONF
So programs run by objects sending messages i.e. initiating behaviour
to one another.
NOTE CONF
So that's what we've seen before.
For example, we had the main in the nearest neighbours
NOTE CONF
thing.
We had the main thing that was running and it
NOTE CONF
wanted to get the point.
So it sent a message off to parse arguments to
NOTE CONF
do something useful.
So they send messages and they receive messages that tell
NOTE CONF
them to do stuff, which maybe change dates and maybe
send more messages and so forth.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so how does this work in Java?
So Java is a class based object oriented language and
NOTE CONF
we organise code in classes.
Classes.
NOTE CONF
And that's how you define your data types.
So and we have these class diagrams right.
NOTE CONF
So here we've got the name of the class here.
This is a class of car.
NOTE CONF
We start off with the state.
We have the things the things that it knows the
NOTE CONF
variables that we have, whether or not it's running, what
its speed is, how much petrol it has.
NOTE CONF
And and because it's Java, of course we have to
say the type.
NOTE CONF
So running is boolean.
Either it's either the engine's on or it's not.
NOTE CONF
Speed is an integer.
Petrol is a double.
NOTE CONF
I mean we could do either of these either way
around, depending how precise we want to be or whatever.
NOTE CONF
And this is its behaviour, the kinds of things it
can do.
NOTE CONF
So you have the name of the method.
And the convention is here that these start with a
NOTE CONF
lowercase.
So class names always start with an uppercase method.
NOTE CONF
Start with a lowercase and then an uppercase for every
extra word.
NOTE CONF
And then you have the arguments you're passing to it.
So some methods don't have any arguments.
NOTE CONF
Start engine doesn't need anything passed into it.
It just it just turns on or off.
NOTE CONF
But accelerate.
You need to pass something in because accelerate is not
NOTE CONF
just something you do or you don't do, you do.
How much do you want to accelerate?
NOTE CONF
So you need more information there and brake again.
How much do you want to brake?
NOTE CONF
How much petrol do you want.
So you could just have refill petrol with no arguments.
NOTE CONF
And that might just mean fill it right up to
the top.
NOTE CONF
Or you could have an argument and that means just
fill it out by this amount.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So so far we've looked at behaviour defining behaviour.
NOTE CONF
But we haven't really looked at building state okay.
So state and behaviour these are the two super important
NOTE CONF
things in class.
There's one more thing that's really important and that is
NOTE CONF
a constructor.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So the point of a constructor is when you want
to create an object, you use a constructor to do
NOTE CONF
it.
What does it mean to create an object?
NOTE CONF
When an object is a virtual abstract thing, what does
it actually mean to create it?
NOTE CONF
What it means is you're creating a space in memory
that's going to put that that object is going to
NOTE CONF
point to, and that's going to have spaces for information
about its about its state.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So construct is essential.
NOTE CONF
And.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So the constructor is a special method that has the
same name as a class.
NOTE CONF
So here you can see this is our constructor here.
It's called car.
NOTE CONF
That's because it's a constructor for a class car.
And then you use the constructor to create all these
NOTE CONF
instances.
And it allocates memory for class instance and initialises the
NOTE CONF
state.
So in Java instances of classes are objects.
NOTE CONF
That is what objects are you create your classes to
say what kinds of things there are in the world.
NOTE CONF
And when you initialise that to construct a particular instance,
you are creating an object.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So here we can see we are using a class
NOTE CONF
car class and its API.
And here we are using this keyword new.
NOTE CONF
As we've said before, you cannot create something without using
the keyword new.
NOTE CONF
New means make some space in memory.
Making some space in memory is what means for something
NOTE CONF
to exist.
It's got to have its space in memory.
NOTE CONF
So here we've got my car, and my car doesn't
know anything.
NOTE CONF
Um, but, uh, and if it's got, uh, the, the,
the state variables will be initiated to whatever the default
NOTE CONF
is.
Um, so now we're doing some things to it.
NOTE CONF
So we're going to say start the engine.
So as we've seen before, the dot is what you
NOTE CONF
use to signify that you're applying a method.
So this is my object and this is the method
NOTE CONF
that I'm applying to it.
I'm going to start the engine.
NOTE CONF
I'm going to accelerate by 30.
Then I'm going to brake by 30, which presumably means
NOTE CONF
I come to stop and then we'll stop the engine.
I'm going to refill petrol.
NOTE CONF
So these are all things I can do with my
car now that I've initialised it.
NOTE CONF
So we have two independent ideas here.
So we've got conceptual objects, the class instances such as
NOTE CONF
my car.
Um, and then we have the static types that define
NOTE CONF
their behaviour.
Right.
NOTE CONF
So the car class is saying what can happen.
So we have these objects.
NOTE CONF
And then the class definition is telling what the object
can do.
NOTE CONF
So objects have a static compile time type defined inside
a class.
NOTE CONF
Everything that an object can do will be defined by
the class that it's an object instance of.
NOTE CONF
Uh, instances of classes are created at runtime, and they
need a constructor and the keyword new.
NOTE CONF
And their reference types, which means they're referencing a piece
of memory.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So what's happening in memory.
NOTE CONF
So memory is something we're going to get into in
more detail a bit later on.
NOTE CONF
But this gives you a little bit of an idea
about what's actually happening.
NOTE CONF
So first of all we're creating.
So now we're looking at an array.
NOTE CONF
It's an array of integers.
And we're saying it's five long.
NOTE CONF
So here we create it in memory because we use
a keyword new.
NOTE CONF
We're now creating the space in memory that's got five
slots always going to have five slots.
NOTE CONF
We can't change that.
These are all initiated to initialise to zero because it's
NOTE CONF
of type integer and zero is the default for integer.
But then we go on to change things.
NOTE CONF
So we're going to say write my array three.
I want that to take the value four and my
NOTE CONF
array two adds whatever's in 410 to whatever's in four.
Um, and so this is actually changing things in memory
NOTE CONF
when you're doing these, um, these operations.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So what about a car.
So that's an array.
NOTE CONF
But what happens when we have an object, a user
defined object that has, um, that has variables, that has
NOTE CONF
state.
So here we're creating new car.
NOTE CONF
This is creating a space in memory called my car
is going to have three slots in it.
NOTE CONF
Because the class definition says that there are three state
of state, uh, there's three aspects of state, which is
NOTE CONF
whether it's running what its speed is and um, how
much petrol it has.
NOTE CONF
So then we can do all of these things.
Uh, so why are these, these values actually, that's maybe
NOTE CONF
sorry.
That's maybe slightly unclear.
NOTE CONF
That slide I should probably update that because actually this
is not the default.
NOTE CONF
We have changed these.
We initially we initialised this car and then we've changed
NOTE CONF
these values.
And we've said it's going travelling 30 and we.
NOTE CONF
Yeah okay.
So this this is what is happening as a result
NOTE CONF
of these methods.
So we start the engine.
NOTE CONF
That means that running is true but it accelerates.
That means that the speed is 30.
NOTE CONF
So we're changing the values in the memory.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So creating class instance reserves memory for its state a
constructor is executed to initialise this memory.
NOTE CONF
So we use a constructor which has the same name
as a as the class and the local variable Mycar
NOTE CONF
holds a reference to the actual object.
So my car is always pointing to the actual object
NOTE CONF
and what it means.
What the actual object is, as we've said, is a
NOTE CONF
space in memory.
That is what the object is.
NOTE CONF
So you're pointing to this space in memory.
Okay, so this is a kind of an aside, but
NOTE CONF
just because we're at this point where this makes sense
now, but just to just to go back to arrays,
NOTE CONF
um.
So an object in Java is either a class instance
NOTE CONF
of one of these classes that you've created or it's
an array.
NOTE CONF
Um, so arrays are treated like class instances.
So in many ways you can think of arrays as.
NOTE CONF
Now we've looked a bit more what it means to
be a class instance or an object.
NOTE CONF
Arrays are very similar to objects in many ways.
They're just the same.
NOTE CONF
You need the keyword new they reference in memory.
You have the underlying class definition.
NOTE CONF
Um, but there are special things about arrays.
And this is because arrays are so cool.
NOTE CONF
So it's really useful for programmers to have these kind
of built in things.
NOTE CONF
So you can do this, this kind of, uh, terminology
where you're where you're looking at, we extract the value
NOTE CONF
of something in a particular index in an array.
There's built in things like length and it doesn't have
NOTE CONF
any methods.
So, uh, arrays is just a kind of special object.
NOTE CONF
Okay, so what happens if you don't?
Initialise an object.
NOTE CONF
So here we're saying there's a, there's something called mycar
which is of type car.
NOTE CONF
And I want to do I want to start its
engine but I haven't used the keyword new.
NOTE CONF
Well maybe maybe somewhere else.
You've created a new car, but I'm just creating my
NOTE CONF
car.
But let's imagine you're just typing this in without having
NOTE CONF
created anything.
Okay, this is not going to compile okay.
NOTE CONF
So this is the error you'll get variable mycar might
not have been initialised if there's no memory allocated with
NOTE CONF
it.
Java's not going to do anything with it.
NOTE CONF
It's not going to be able to do anything with
it.
NOTE CONF
It's going to complain about that.
There's no new object.
NOTE CONF
There's no space for it in memory.
It doesn't exist.
NOTE CONF
It is actually occasionally possible to fool the compiler into
not noticing that.
NOTE CONF
And then if you're trying to do something with it,
you'll get a null pointer exception.
NOTE CONF
Right.
And what this means is it needs to be pointing
NOTE CONF
to somewhere in memory, but it isn't pointing to anything
in memory.
NOTE CONF
Um.
So where do references point if there's no corresponding object?
NOTE CONF
They point to null, right?
So if you talk about my car and you haven't
NOTE CONF
initialised it, it's just null.
Um, which means it's pointing at nothing.
NOTE CONF
And if you use it, you'll get a null pointer
exception.
NOTE CONF
So creating something in memory absolutely fundamental to object oriented
programming or to Java.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So now we're going to copy something right.
NOTE CONF
So we're creating this new thing called Mycar.
This is where it is in memory.
NOTE CONF
And then we're saying wait there's another car.
Your car.
NOTE CONF
And this is the same as my car, right.
But we haven't used the word new again.
NOTE CONF
So this means we're not creating a new space in
memory.
NOTE CONF
We're not creating a different object.
We're essentially just saying that your car is a different
NOTE CONF
name for my car, but it's the same object because
it's pointing to the same reference.
NOTE CONF
So here we've got this other name, but this the
slots in memory are the same as the same object.
NOTE CONF
Um, so so so so when we assign the reference
of an object to a local variable is just copying
NOTE CONF
the reference to the memory, right?
It's not creating new memory with those values, it's just
NOTE CONF
creating a reference to the original memory.
Um, and here.
NOTE CONF
But here we're doing something different, right?
We're first of all, we're creating mycar and now we're
NOTE CONF
creating your car.
So we've used the keyword new.
NOTE CONF
So this is something different in memory.
It's got its own bit of memory.
NOTE CONF
And then we are copying everything that's up here.
We're copying to here.
NOTE CONF
So we're saying all these values we want them to
be the same right.
NOTE CONF
So these are separate objects.
They have the same values but they're the separate objects
NOTE CONF
here.
These are just the same objects.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So what is this going to print.
NOTE CONF
So we're looking at equals here.
Um okay let's just quickly go to IntelliJ to this
NOTE CONF
I think this might be quite useful.
Uh what do we want.
NOTE CONF
Comparison.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So what does it mean in Java?
So first of all we're printing A and B.
NOTE CONF
This is hello world.
We print A and B we print C.
NOTE CONF
Uh.
And then we say, are these two things the same?
NOTE CONF
So we've printed out okay.
This is going to say.
NOTE CONF
Uh, they.
All say hello world.
NOTE CONF
And this says this is true, right.
If we do equals, are these the same.
NOTE CONF
Yes.
That's true.
NOTE CONF
They're the same.
But what if we use this double equals sign which
NOTE CONF
we also which also means equals, but in a different
way.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So this is going to say false.
NOTE CONF
Right.
So double double equals what this is saying is are
NOTE CONF
these the same objects.
Is this pointing to the same bit of memory.
NOTE CONF
Whereas the equals the equals method that we had before.
What this means is do these things have the same
NOTE CONF
value.
They're not necessarily the same object, but do they have
NOTE CONF
the same values.
So here what is this print.
NOTE CONF
These are different objects.
And this is this double equals means.
NOTE CONF
Are these pointing the same bit of memory.
So this is going to be false.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
It compares object references and not object states.
NOTE CONF
Uh.
This is going to be true, right?
NOTE CONF
Because here your car is just the same as just
referencing my car.
NOTE CONF
So these are the same thing because we haven't created
different things in memory.
NOTE CONF
That's the same reference.
It's just referenced in this bit of memory.
NOTE CONF
So the reference is the same.
So double equals here will return true.
NOTE CONF
Um, and here we're saying these are different objects.
But what we want to know here is, is this
NOTE CONF
value of speed the same.
Right.
NOTE CONF
And this will return true.
Um, because this is a primitive type, this is an
NOTE CONF
integer.
And double equals means for an integer.
NOTE CONF
Sorry.
And for a primitive type it means do these things
NOTE CONF
have the same value.
Um, so yeah we looked at that there.
NOTE CONF
Um, oops.
So if we compare these so there's actually some subtleties
NOTE CONF
to this I don't want you to worry about, I
just want to touch on now so that when you
NOTE CONF
come back to them later, you will understand.
So are these the same?
NOTE CONF
This will print true okay.
Because they're because they're primitive values.
NOTE CONF
So we can compare them with a double.
Equals.
NOTE CONF
This as we've seen.
What's this going to print?
NOTE CONF
This is going to print false.
Because although these have the same value.
NOTE CONF
They're not printing.
Pointing to same objects.
NOTE CONF
A, B and C are all they're all different in
different places in memory.
NOTE CONF
So they're not pointing to the same bit of memory.
However, if we use equals that is saying do these
NOTE CONF
things have the same value and then it will return
true because they they look the same.
NOTE CONF
Um, yes.
Let's very quickly we're almost out of time.
NOTE CONF
But um, so there are occasionally there are things that
you can't do with primitive values.
NOTE CONF
So when we get on to collections later on, you
have to have objects in that.
NOTE CONF
You can't have primitive values.
So you have these things called wrappers where you can
NOTE CONF
turn primitive types into an object.
Um, and it used to be a real pain, but
NOTE CONF
now it's much easier.
So if you say so when you're saying, um, you've
NOTE CONF
got a variable you're assigning to something, you can, you
can say it's an integer with a capital I, that
NOTE CONF
will mean it's an object of type integer rather than
the primitive type ints that we usually use.
NOTE CONF
You wouldn't generally use this, but you'd only use it
if you're in a situation where you need it to
NOTE CONF
be an object.
And it works both both ways around.
NOTE CONF
Java is really happy converting between these two, depending on
what's most useful for you.
NOTE CONF
Um, okay, so now here, this is just the same.
Only we're using this as an object.
NOTE CONF
So now this is going to be true.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
So this is where it gets a little bit technical.
And I don't want you to worry about it too
NOTE CONF
much, but just to refer to it so you know
that there's a thing.
NOTE CONF
This is because of caching.
So it's, um, kind of doing things under the hood.
NOTE CONF
That means with, with these, uh, five is a literal.
So it's been cached by the compiler.
NOTE CONF
So don't worry about this.
But if this comes up later then you might remember
NOTE CONF
that we talked about this.
This only happens for small integers.
NOTE CONF
So for 200 it's going to say false.
Because integer literals are only cached between 1 to 8
NOTE CONF
and -1 to 8 and 1 to 7.
Now what's going to happen here?
NOTE CONF
Are these is this going to be true or not.
The double equals It is because string literals are also
NOTE CONF
interned.
But here we're specifically creating a new bit of memory
NOTE CONF
to say these things belong in different bits of memory,
so that now these are not the same.
NOTE CONF
False.
Okay.
NOTE CONF
You're using constructors.
So you're explicitly making different bits of memory.
NOTE CONF
Okay.
So to compare things for primitives you can always use
NOTE CONF
double equal.
For objects you use double equal.
NOTE CONF
If you want to know are these the very same
object.
NOTE CONF
And you use dot equals if you want to know
do these things have the same value.
NOTE CONF
Are they in the same state, which is almost always
when you're doing equals?
NOTE CONF
I don't know about almost always, but it's very commonly
what you want to know.
NOTE CONF
Are these do these things have the same state.
Not are these actually pointing to the same bit of
NOTE CONF
memory?
So because of inheritance, which we're going to talk about
NOTE CONF
later, you can use for anything you make, you create
without defining it.
NOTE CONF
It'll inherit a definition, but the inherits the definition inherits
is just that equals is the same as this double
NOTE CONF
equals, which is almost never what you want, because that's
really not giving you very much.
NOTE CONF
So mostly whenever you define a new class, you're going
to want to define the equals method so that you
NOTE CONF
know in your context, what does it mean for two
things to be equal.
NOTE CONF
And generally what that means is that all the state
variables are the same like we saw with the car.
NOTE CONF
If it's going the same speed, if it's, you know,
if all these things are the same, then it is,
NOTE CONF
we consider them equal.
But it's not always that sometimes you want to do
NOTE CONF
different things.
Uh, okay.
NOTE CONF
So the methods uh, okay.
So I think, uh, I kind of wanted to finish
NOTE CONF
this lecture today and we're almost at the end, but,
um, I think we're going to run out of time.
NOTE CONF
I don't wanna trust you.
Um, so let me just quickly say next Monday or
NOTE CONF
I'm going to leave this up as well.
We got loads of volunteers.
NOTE CONF
That's great.
But there's lots of time for a couple more.
NOTE CONF
But next Monday, we're going to have the two hour
session.
NOTE CONF
Let me quickly show you timetable so you can see
here.
NOTE CONF
This is um info on B lecture goes for two
hours just in week four and week eight.
NOTE CONF
That means you need to go to the second calculus
lecture.
NOTE CONF
If you're doing calculus, we will be providing lunch.
It's not going to be like super intense, like you're
NOTE CONF
working for hours and hours because it's going to be
more relaxed and more interactive, but it's going to be
NOTE CONF
really useful and really valuable.
So add questions to ask me any questions, and I
NOTE CONF
will answer them on Thursday.
And maybe see you in my office hour.
NOTE CONF